So the goal is to be able to output the posts
and for this, I'll add another new component because I said you want to be granular and creating a post is
actually something which is decoupled from outputting the posts.
So in the post folder, I'll create a new subfolder which I'll name post list
and in there, I'll add my post-list.component.ts and the post-list.component.html
file for the html content.
Now you know how to create such a component,
by the way if you use the cli regularly for that, you can also create components with the cli with a
command,
I'm a fan of the manual approach
also because it's really good for practicing.
So here I'll export another class, post-list.component.html
and as you know we add the @component decorator to it
and in there we add a selector,
this will be app post list and a template url link where we point to our post-list.component.html
file.
So now we got that base components set up, as you know we need to include it to app module to use it,
so in the declarations array
I'll add my post-list.component, also add the import, here my IDE added it and then we can use it in the
app component maybe below the app post create component, there we could add app posts list, like this.
Now right now our component is empty,
the goal is to render a list of posts in there.
So for now first of all let's go back to post create component and get rid of that ugly paragraph
and then dive into the post-list.component.html template.
I want to use another feature of the angular material package and that can be found under layout,
I want to use the expansion panel which is a collapsible,
well panel where we can display some content.
Now to use this, I'll go back to the app module and import one additional module from angular material, the
mat expansion module and also add this to the imports array here, mat
expansion module like this
and now with that added, let's go back to the post-list.component.html file and to use it, we can again
have a look at the official docs, at the dummy source code there, as you can see they use the mat accordion
to wrap this all, this is used to basically be able to orchestrate all these expansion panels.
Now we can easily recreate this by adding mat accordion here as an element in our post-list.component.html
file
and in there, add the mat expansion panel element and in that mat expansion panel element, you can
have a mat expansion panel header, this allow you to define a title
and below that header, you can also have some regular content like here, I'm in an expansion panel like
this and this would be the expansion title. Now if we save that and we go back to our application, we
can see our expandable element here.
Now it's sitting directly beneath the card at the top here which is not super pretty,
additionally I'd also like to restrict the width of that, since I want to do restrict the width of both
the input and this, maybe I want to restrict the width of the total main content.
So let's go actually to the post create component, to the style there and I will not set mat card here
anymore to have a width of 80%,
instead I go to my app-component.css file and for the main area here, there I will set a width of 80%
and
margin auto for now.
So now both is limited in width and centered, now to have some spacing between our post-list.component
and our posts create component,
we've got multiple ways of achieving this.
One simple way is to add a margin top to our post-list.component and we can do this by adding post-list.
component.css here and import this into our post-list.component by adding style urls here
post-lists.component.css and in here then target a special selector, the post selector which
targets the element itself
so to say and add a margin top of 1rem.
And if we save that, nothing changed because actually all the elements by default are not treated as
block level elements,
so we have to set the display to block first,
once we do that, now we get some spacing here,
cool.
So now this is working,
now let's go back to populating this with some content too. We get a title and a
well content,
so we might want to add a new field for a title here eventually
but first of all, let's see how we could output a list of some dummy posts.
So back in the post-list.component, we only got one expansion panel with hardcoded content in there,
now let's say we had a list of posts, so in the post list component let's say we have posts and this actually
is an array
and in there we got some javascript object where every post has title like first post and some content
like this is the first post content
and we had not just one but three posts,
so the second and the third post and here we got the second post and the third post content.
Now it would be nice if we could dynamically loop through all these posts and output that data in our
template right. Now
actually angular has us covered when it comes to this,
it offers so-called directives which I already mentioned before briefly which allow us to manipulate
elements in the dom when needed.
Now let's dive deeper into what I mean with this and how this works in the next lecture.